In this lesson, we'll set up a free 60 day trial account with flywheel hosting and install a WordPress
demo site in preparation for learning the free version of Cadence theme.
You'll sign up and verify your account at the managed WordPress host and see how it's super easy to
create a demo site by the end of this video.
You'll have experience setting up a fresh installation of WordPress at a temporary domain ready to practice
with.
Take live or pass on to a client to get started installing and working with the free cadence theme and
the cadence blocks plug in at WordPress.
The first thing I want you guys to do is to go get your free flywheel hosting account for 60 days that
they've offered us in this course.
Now go to students dot WP Dev Course, dot com and there's a resources page.
Now it might look a little different than what you see here in the video, but you'll be looking for
the link to the Flywheel student hosting.
And if you click that link, you'll be brought to a flywheel sign up page that has my course, logo,
et cetera, up at the top.
And you just need to sign up with your name, username and password and an email address and you can
create an account.
Now, when we do this, it might show up as a 14 day account because this is normally what Flywheel
offers new users when they first start out as long as they verified their account.
But before they've included a payment method or anything like that, you're allowed to set up a demo
account and set up one WordPress site for free for 14 days.
But we have a special deal with Flywheel for members of the course.
Congratulations, you get 60 days to play with a free site of your own at Flywheel.
And so I'm just going to, woops, I'm just going to choose a password.
And then put a correct email address.
Because you can use that for account verification, as well as SMIC's SMS text to verify your account.
So you just click the agree checkbox and click Create Account, and then Flywheel will bring you to
their welcome page.
And really, all you need to do is click Create a new site right here, or you can click around and
see what other things that they have on offer.
Flywheel is a great managed WordPress host that has a really easy to use interface.
Very quick, and you get this 60 days free.
And so one thing you can do under your at the top right here is either click new site or create a new
site here.
And what I'd recommend that you do is instead of going through and choosing the owner of the site and
creating a plan.
Go over to the right side and click Create a demo site.
It's a demo site that we're setting up so that we don't have to enter any payment information right
now.
Now they do require that you verify your account, that you're a real person before they'll let you
create a free demo site on their hosting platform.
And so without having to put it in any credit card information, you can use text message to verify
your account here.
You'll also receive an email that's a welcome to fly will fly.
We'll email, and I'm looking over at my email program here, and I see that there's a button where
I can verify my account by clicking that button in my email.
And so it's just taking me to the Verify account page like I was on before.
And so you'll want to use text message to verify your account if you have a little trouble with the
country code dropdown.
I had to go just now on my cell phone and navigate to the website and sign in.
And then I was able to verify my account via text message.
And now it's verified.
So once you verify your account, this will be the next page you get to when you want to create a demo
site and you can see free for 14 days right here.
But signing up with our special link will give us 60 days, and you'll see that reflected once we create
our site right in here.
And so you could see you get zero of one demo sites used so far.
And then I'm just going to create a site.
I'm going to call it Greg Davis cadence.
And let's see, I'll just go get cadence 13.
Because that was the email address that I used.
And you can select a data center and then select a username and password that you'll remember and confirm
the password.
Right and right, and then you click Create demo site.
If your passwords match and everything, it's going to give you a little flywheel here spinning and
it'll say it's being created usually takes about five minutes and they'll send an email to let you know
when it's ready.
So I'll pause the video here and you should go in and do the same.
Create yourself a demo site and then I'll show you around Flywheel a little bit and we'll open up the
demo site and install cadence and get started customizing a new website.
OK, and so that only took about one minute, and I got an email that says, Your site is ready and
it tells me the temporary domain and the WP admin dashboard URL as well.
And it tells me what my username is, and there's a button over there that says View Site.
Now if we go back here, this is what opened up inside of the flywheel dashboard.
And you can see now up at the top left is this little orange banner that says 60 days left of this demo
site.
And you know they prevent you from taking the site live until you've set up billing information or transferred
the billing to a client or something like that.
The way they do that is down here at the bottom right.
They force you to have privacy mode on which basically is HTTP authentication, meaning if you try to
browse to your website or to the dashboard, you have to put in a username and password in order to
open it up.
And that's where you find that on the main page of your demo site right here.
And so there's also a link right up here to the demo site itself.
And another thing that you can do, which is a good idea, right when you first start out, is to go
and click Enable SSL, and that puts in an SSL certificate on the site so that you don't get any kind
of a browser warning or anything while you're working with your temporary URL and building your site.
And so I'm going to just click Enable SSL, and now I get a welcome message.
Your SSL has been enabled.
I can close that little banner if I want to, and I can see some information about the domain name right
here on the Flywheel Dashboard, and that just shows me the little green lock symbol.
And so what I'll do now is just click the the site itself, and here's where you can see the HTTP authentication
in place.
The username is always flywheel, and then there's an easy to remember password delightful parade with
a hyphen down here.
So I'll type that in.
And now that prevents, you know, the search engine parts or any people from going in to see the site
or the dashboard, if you're not already logged in with HTP authentication like that.
And so you could see a familiar 2022 theme, the home page just has the latest posts, and it's just
a default installation of WordPress that we can easily work with to set up a practice site.
So I'll go back into the Flywheel dashboard and over here.
There's also a WP admin button.
If you click that, that will open up your site in another tab in the WordPress dashboard.
Of course, like we did before, I'll dismiss the welcome message and then I'm ready to go.
So now if you set that up, you've got a nice, free practice site to work with on the very fast flywheel
hosting program.
And let's get started next, installing cadence and the cadence blocks plug in and I'll show you around
how to customize the site and bring in starter templates to start from.
And it'll be exciting.
Let's go.